nice much less look rainy more we are
live streaming
okay cool so welcome hello everybody and
welcome to the Jay s core dev T weekly
sync October the 52018
it's really nice to see you all note
taker is Jacob he's already put his name
down that's fabulous
called put your name on your attendees
list if you haven't already and weekly
updates showing so I might as well start
do full so last week was the protocol
lab week and it was the awesome I just
put a couple of links to talks I gave
that whilst there in case you were
interested I today released JSI BFS API
version 25 and that has got a fix the
big thing in that release is a fix for
large file uploads it it it updates the
stream HTTP dependency by the major
version number so I just wanted to play
extra safe and release a major version
of ipfs API just in case
it caused issues for people so what else
I created a release issue for Jess IVFs
0.33
the next release will have the new web
UI stuff hooray and so there's gonna be
fun I talked to Holly this morning and
he is cool to get that in as soon as
possible so so let's do that it's gonna
be right I'm not currently blocked in
anything
I am currently or this week I am hoping
to finally complete my CID base work if
other stuff doesn't get in the way I've
just been clearing out my inbox and
pruning some issues and pull requests
and things today but that is about all
from me any question questions
awesome work really happy that now just
a PCP I can stream really large files to
actual demons ok can you confirm
it works with both go ipfs and Jessa
beepers or just Jessica fence boats who
is saying both let's accent excellent
then what a lot of users complaining
about that's that's like after like four
gigs or something it was crushing can
you make sure to follow up with them
just give them a ping saying okay like
it's now fixed also really exciting that
is so Jessica's getting the first the
new web UI
nice and it's just people skating first
the race duty to stuff if you finish it
this week well I guess he does still to
get released right so I was just hoping
to finish the PR at least but it will
need a review and and and all of that so
I wasn't planning to get it into this
release but even if it happens couple
weeks from now it sounds like a
representation to me and you have a
questions
okay rat who is who's next
Jacob would you like to give us your
update yeah so it was lab week or last
week we made good progress with Lupita P
on our roadmap so we're gonna work on a
little bit more and get that published
in some stuff came up couple questions
on private networks so I did that on the
plane ride there's now a probably
Network example but I've got a pull
request open to and solicit a couple
community members for feedback on that
that we're having a hard time with it
also working on support for the elliptic
curve keys that's most of the way there
there's just some like minor interface
issues with strings versus buffers for
verification so I'm fixing that testing
against lupita p & j SI p FS but once
that gets released we'll be able to
specify key types in pure ID so that
should be done probably tomorrow or so
and then yeah for the testing on that
this week I'm gonna work on finalizing
the state machine work with Lib p2p so
we can get about 24 released and then
I'll start work on the J slippy to be
daemon for inter up and testbed testing
as well as work on some design proposals
for the testbed effort that we'll be
working on this week for the PDP
any questions for me I just have a
request make sure to record any video
I'll bike showing out we can use both
keys because there has been a long time
requested feature not only by agaric but
like all of other users that want to use
it and so like a two-minute video can go
really long way yeah
given that we now have a penis every
built in the system that enables us to
do multiply pianist names without like
tagging it on the pier ID key or is it
still like single a penis M per node I
do not know okay so I guess the answer
is No
you
oh yeah I have a question on private
networks so I'm just frantically trying
to look at the the proquest II that's
that's just adding an example of it
already working is that yeah so the
example shows how to run two nodes that
have the same swarm key and then there's
like a task in there where you can go in
and comment out the like one of the
swarm keys and changes so that the nodes
are running different swarm keys and
watch them fail to connect so this
example is how to do that
running JSI BFS without like we've got a
change request open in ipfs repo that we
haven't really touched that's actually
like adding the ability to auto detect
and pull that for JSI BFS um but we
don't technically don't need any of
those changes it just works right now
cool cool and say I know someone opened
an issue on that did you you've
presumably responded to it and told them
this example is now exists and they can
look at it yeah so that just came up
there was a issue about a month ago
where somebody was looking for the
example and then it came up like it was
really Saturday or something where
somebody was having issues getting it
running on how and then this addresses
that in the I don't know if there's a GS
ipfs issue I haven't seen that but I can
take a quick look and link over that
example cool okay that's all from me
okay next person to is vodka okay so um
I was also the lab week and I would say
that grafting finally has a design so
the spec needs to be written which will
be my task I which also we didn't ask of
the next week starting with it then yeah
we for the lab week I started my
phosphor G talk I just need to upload it
just to cut off my start the recording
yeah and then I yeah
head also conversation with Ellen today
about so darks Libra is changing api's
and is a way we could change then I
thought how would you with see a decent
links and just need to make sure that so
currently nothing is really broken but
once you upgrade to a new version of
iPhone be your things might break in the
basis surface up an activist so you're
gonna appear if it's upgrades and also
projected using IPS and use text Ybor
might break so I will make sure to look
at the most prominent things like the
web UI or the Explorer to just make sure
that make it the fixes in before we
upgrade IP only in a previous yes so
this is more of a management task rather
than a complicated technical one yeah
that's all
go any questions for vodka okay if not
then we attend to Hugo would you like to
share your uptake of Earth
sure so I was in my wake as everyone
else during that time I did some minor
requests to a year about the
experimental world and a couple of minor
other things and don't really remember
but okay so for the next week I will
finally finish the Shanghai ads review
that Alan gave me and now so I will
start making bundles smaller in meantime
I'll continue doing their tests as these
take a long time I've in between I have
time to do other stuff like making the
experimental real default and on those
smaller I also would like to show you
guys something if I can do it now I
don't know
there we go time
okay so for the bundles one of the
things that I'll be using to show up
like progress and stuff would be this
tool bundle phobia as you can see here
you can track the size of a time as we
improve the size of each of our packages
we can use this to to keep track of the
progress and also I'll use another tool
called size limits that will be
configured in each ripple that will give
the developers or the maintenance
feedback about the size I still don't
know if it will be like a pre push hope
or maybe something on the sea I will
figure that out on an issue probably
with everyone's opinion and also during
live week we had a lot of talks about
the CI and now can we improve it and
I've been working with Michael burns
from the infra team to make a proof of
concept using the gitlab CI so to see if
you guys numerals can take advantage of
it I'm still waiting for some of the
machines to like make a complete
pipeline with the Windows and Mac OS and
stuff like that right now I just did a
simple setup with the normal shakes like
painting also the pendency shaking that
basically tells us if any of the
packages we use is not on packages of
Jace and stuff like that and basically
running tests on no the eight no ten and
the browser
I'm still finishing out the Firefox
version of this last one as you can see
it and so basically this is what it
looks like on the Class VI this is
basically the list of all the runs you
get a nice view of the pipeline you can
retry each of the steps not all not the
not only the state of the complete stage
but each of the steps you can also do
whatever we want basically we can as we
configure that pipeline with this file
we can do stuff like checking out by
cloning and checking out all the repos
running the tests like with a link to
this is specially important for the ipfs
so we can like test if we don't break
other packages or other vehicles when we
do some some kind of change we can do
also scheduled pipelines that would be
useful for the might be military tests
to run it like weekly or daily or
whatever so it's pretty configurable and
it works pretty well
this is connected to the github repos
directly they basically set up hooks and
when everything gets pushed they run the
pipeline on it live on it lab so
basically it works like this and I will
finish up the pipeline to more or less
mimic what we have on Jenkins and then
we can talk about it on any issue or
something so that's it I just wanted to
show you this making you aware of this
little proof-of-concept see anyone has
any questions please yeah I have a
couple questions first first question
the experimental build can you for
people who may be watching who don't
know what that might be
can you explain what what that is and
and why it exists basically this the
experimental watching what it does it's
it's the setup is a little bit a little
bit simpler and the updates bubble and
web pack with new conflicts for each to
make the bundle smaller to make the
translation a a little bit better not by
much but just a little bit and it's
basically it okay yeah sure David
Gifford ever two questions so the first
one on the bundle side is pretty cool
it'll be great if it isn't required us
to girl to that service every time it'll
be great like if there is a CI hook that
just tells of every four requests what
is it change
there's nothing necessary to make
request file if the bundle increases
just like something that we can keep
track on it keeps reminding us on the
EITI super interesting like I I've been
like longtime fan of people have and how
they set up stuff it is still very like
bori like very foggy to me oh the IVFs
work feels about using it up so
you've got me yeah sorry I was just
asking everyone to give me and so yeah
so yeah give up see I love to see if
there is issues open about like deaths
that the that plan and I just like to
get everyone's feelings about it
everyone's perspective no more than
killing there is perspective but it but
yeah like thank you for like just coming
up with that and and developing a proof
of concept right now I don't have any
technical observations other than well
nice looks cool so Helen yeah just kind
of two things quickly the but the web UI
is using a service that does do a get
hook for bundle size and it keeps it to
a specific particular level and if you
go over that then it will it will kind
of flag it up so we could use that and
then secondly a question for the Hugo if
we if with the get lab stuff would we
also have to remove or lock code to get
lab or can we run it like as a separate
CI
service so the demo just did I didn't
put any cold on the cloud it's all all
connected to the IP FST CTL in a
specific branch that I'm using to test
out all this stuff so the workflow would
continue to be exactly the same with one
exception instead of going to Jenkins
page we'll go to the get labs CI page
nothing more when we set up a fork of
J's ipfs and run that on get lab and see
how it works
yes we'll finish up the pipeline
obviously Michael can get me the other
machines so we can be like a complete
pipeline with everything and I know
is he going for everyone else we'll
never know
[Laughter]
are you back I see you make
can you hear me now I guess I dropped my
connection so basically I'll just finish
the the pipeline and then just copy the
configuration into a branch on my PFS
and do what with the quests I'd love to
see that I think that we're at um cool
any other questions for Hugo awesome
dahveed would you like to did you want
to say anything else or have any other
comments questions well I guess my
ability is very light last week was a la
week we might be past days we need to
physically compile all the notes from
our Venkatesh and then publish them
publicly right now my really big focus
and and like as you might have seen
there's a new project moved at what
proposed and merged and so there is now
a team responsible for creating their
artifacts that we need to across the in
communication direction setting and also
to help the working group set up their
path and so right now we are in this
stage of just unpacking the vision of my
PFS and I give some tangent chill like
some reality but milestones like
something that we can I understand what
we need to do in order to reach what is
the vision and so me and Molly are
working on that document our hopes is to
have a version by the end of this week
that we can send to you all for you to
pull requests against and so like it's
more Yuri into the oxy if you make sense
to like every single working group and
then iterate on it synchronously until
we feel it is ready for us to commit to
the 2019 priorities and once we are
ready to commit 2018 priorities it's
when we will welcome all the working
groups to kind of like defined a roadmap
for 2019 and and kind of like
communicate to the whole like what is
possible what is not possible what we we
as a big team can do to help each
working group team - of course I try to
achieve more and try to hit all of our
goals the all of these artifacts will be
public for the internet profess
community we are just like getting the
first versions over a Google Doc because
the the experience of like anything
there is like fessor buttock wants to
feel that is ready to share we were just
like do a request on a repo cultural map
and welcome everyone in and so yeah that
is like my core focus right now my
secondary focus is I'm spending some
time with a girl team and so they are
now also figuring out their own
priorities for the quarter there is a
lot of texting issues but the the
general the gist is given that like as
in your team like we see 11th a
structure or settled on what are the
ipfs project level priorities and what
we are doing is okay independently of
like what are the PR descriptors ranking
there is just like working on a baseline
that is needed to support all of those
visionary goals that we learn about and
so we are using things like that assets
that we have been transferring or trying
to transfer for a while over at people
try again p.m. on IP first the image
that data set etc to like kind of like
dictates whether we don't like the
performance improvements if we need to
get ready and then also like there is a
big conversation and it is something
that like we also need to have a
conversation about is to make sure that
the maturity and the stability of the
project gets proven by benchmarks and
tested and so like when we say we can
trust for a one terabyte file it should
not just be like someone tried on their
machine one time it should be something
that is repeatable and something that
will give confidence to all of our users
that the machine is ready and so and
also like even like an a byproduct of
that is when you create those testing
our messes and benchmark
you suddenly open the door to all of the
networking peer to peer performance
experts to have a playground for them to
like test their ideas and test their
expertise and really I take part on the
project right now just hard for people
that are experienced on like markets to
come to beat swap and like help us I
figure out what is the best strategy for
get swap or for DHT or etc and so
getting a bunch of benchmark and I know
that this team is working on the
monetary test that so that's going to be
great
getting those things finalized this
quarter will be like will yield a ton of
returns for next year because then we
can open the the playground for everyone
else so and I could part of this
conversation is also like lovely optical
team to have better coordination in a
way that it is inclusive of other teams
so that's if of course I can like
communicate needs that the Jazz team can
like understand what's going on and like
it so defining events when there is a
proposed for change or it is even part
of the design of Phoenix fSV to and so
on and so so yeah okay I'll report back
in the week is over yeah I mean the guy
the guy PFS team kind of communication
is already so much better like I'm
already I already get like pings from
Steven when he feels there's something
that I should know about
like oh I guess issues and that's just
like even if it's just ping me then the
nuts that it's just a big step in the
right direction so I'm super happy with
that so yeah I'm seeing all this good
stuff gonna start to pay off at least so
rad very excited and yeah like I totally
agree on the benchmark stuff and having
I think having that just like that
bundle phobia thing where you can have
like a this version was this slow
playground where you can kind of see
what what what differences you're
actually making each version would be
yeah super useful so yeah totally
aligned on that and absolutely hoping to
make progress on on that front this
quarter
well we're totally on time so we should
get off this call does anyone have any
final thoughts or can we just go
all right thank you very much for coming
and we'll see you in again next week for
another exciting edition of JSI PFS core
devs meet up and talk about jazz ipfs
and other related technologies good bye
bye